# s3

---

Package s3 - AWS S3 VFS implementation.

### Usage

Rely on github.com/c2fo/vfs/v6/backend

```go
    import(
        "github.com/c2fo/vfs/v6/backend"
        "github.com/c2fo/vfs/v6/backend/s3"
    )

    func UseFs() error {
        fs := backend.Backend(s3.Scheme)
        ...
    }
```

Or call directly:

```go
    import "github.com/c2fo/vfs/v6/backend/s3"

    func DoSomething() {
        fs := s3.NewFileSystem()
        ...
    }
```

s3 can be augmented with the following implementation-specific methods. Backend
returns [vfs.FileSystem](../README.md#type-filesystem) interface so it would have to be cast as [s3.FileSystem](#type-filesystem) to
use the following:

```go
    func DoSomething() {
        ...

        // cast if fs was created using backend.Backend().  Not necessary if created directly from s3.NewFileSystem().
        fs = fs.(s3.FileSystem)

        // to pass in client options
        fs = fs.WithOptions(
            s3.Options{
                AccessKeyID:     "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE",
                SecretAccessKey: "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY",
                Region:          "us-west-2",
                ACL:             "bucket-owner-full-control",
            },
        )

        // to pass specific client, for instance a mock client
        s3cliMock := &mocks.Client{}
        s3cliMock.On("GetObject", matchContext, mock.AnythingOfType("*s3.GetObjectInput")).
            Return(&s3.GetObjectOutput{
                Body: nopCloser{bytes.NewBufferString("Hello world!")},
                }, nil)
        fs = fs.WithClient(s3cliMock)
    }
```

### Object ACL

Canned ACL's can be passed in as an Option.  This string will be applied to all writes, moves, and copies.
See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html#canned-acl for values.

### Authentication

Authentication, by default, occurs automatically when [Client()](#func-filesystem-client) is called. It
looks for credentials in the following places, preferring the first location
found:

1. StaticProvider - set of credentials which are set programmatically, and will never expire.
1. EnvProvider - credentials from the environment variables of the
       running process. Environment credentials never expire.
       Environment variables used:

   * Access Key ID:     `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` or `AWS_ACCESS_KEY`
   * Secret Access Key: `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` or `AWS_SECRET_KEY`

1. SharedCredentialsProvider - looks for `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE` env variable. If the
       env value is empty will default to current user's home directory.

    * Linux/OSX: `$HOME/.aws/credentials`
    * Windows:   `%USERPROFILE%\.aws\credentials`

1. RemoteCredProvider - default remote endpoints such as EC2 or ECS IAM Roles
1. EC2RoleProvider - credentials from the EC2 service, and keeps track if those credentials are expired

See the following for more auth info:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html and
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html

### See Also

See: https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/tree/main/service/s3

## Usage

```go
const Scheme = "s3"
```
Scheme defines the file system type.

### type File

```go
type File struct {
}
```

File implements [vfs.File](../README.md#type-file) interface for S3 fs.

#### func (*File) Close

```go
func (f *File) Close() error
```
Close cleans up underlying mechanisms for reading from and writing to the file.
Closes and removes the local temp file, and triggers a write to s3 of anything
in the f.writeBuffer if it has been created.

#### func (*File) CopyToFile

```go
func (f *File) CopyToFile(targetFile vfs.File) error
```
CopyToFile puts the contents of File into the targetFile passed. Uses the S3
CopyObject method if the target file is also on S3, otherwise uses [io.Copy](https://godoc.org/io#Copy).

#### func (*File) CopyToLocation

```go
func (f *File) CopyToLocation(location vfs.Location) (vfs.File, error)
```
CopyToLocation creates a copy of [*File](#type-file), using the file's current name as the new
file's name at the given location. If the given location is also s3, the AWS API
for copying files will be utilized, otherwise, standard [io.Copy](https://godoc.org/io#Copy) will be done to
the new file.

#### func (*File) Delete

```go
func (f *File) Delete(opts ...options.DeleteOption) error
```
Delete clears any local temp file, or write buffer from read/writes to the file,
then makes a DeleteObject call to s3 for the file. If opts is of type delete.AllVersions, DeleteObject call is made to
s3 for each version of the file. Returns any error returned by
the API.

#### func (*File) Exists

```go
func (f *File) Exists() (bool, error)
```
Exists returns a boolean of whether or not the object exists on s3, based on a
call for the object's HEAD through the s3 API.

#### func (*File) LastModified

```go
func (f *File) LastModified() (*time.Time, error)
```
LastModified returns the LastModified property of a HEAD request to the s3
object.

#### func (*File) Location

```go
func (f *File) Location() vfs.Location
```
Location returns a [vfs.Location](../README.md#type-location) at the location of the object. IE: if file is at
s3://bucket/here/is/the/file.txt the location points to s3://bucket/here/is/the/

#### func (*File) MoveToFile

```go
func (f *File) MoveToFile(targetFile vfs.File) error
```
MoveToFile puts the contents of File into the targetFile passed using
[File.CopyToFile](#func-file-copytofile). If the copy succeeds, the source file is deleted. Any errors
from the copy or delete are returned.

#### func (*File) MoveToLocation

```go
func (f *File) MoveToLocation(location vfs.Location) (vfs.File, error)
```
MoveToLocation works by first calling [File.CopyToLocation](#func-file-copytolocation)([vfs.Location](../README.md#type-location)) then, if
that succeeds, it deletes the original file, returning the new file. If the copy
process fails the error is returned, and the [Delete](#func-file-delete) isn't called. If the call to
[Delete](#func-file-delete) fails, the error and the file generated by the copy are both returned.

#### func (*File) Name

```go
func (f *File) Name() string
```
Name returns the name portion of the file's _key_ property. IE: "file.txt" of
"s3://some/path/to/file.txt

#### func (*File) Path

```go
func (f *File) Path() string
```
Path return the directory portion of the file's _key_. IE: "path/to" of
"s3://some/path/to/file.txt

#### func (*File) Read

```go
func (f *File) Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
```
Read implements the standard for [io.Reader](https://godoc.org/io#Reader). For this to work with an s3 file, a
temporary local copy of the file is created, and reads work on that. This file
is closed and removed upon calling [f.Close()](#func-file-close)

#### func (*File) Seek

```go
func (f *File) Seek(offset int64, whence int) (int64, error)
```
Seek implements the standard for io.Seeker. A temporary local copy of the s3
file is created (the same one used for Reads) which Seek() acts on. This file is
closed and removed upon calling f.Close()

#### func (*File) Size

```go
func (f *File) Size() (uint64, error)
```
Size returns the ContentLength value from an s3 HEAD request on the file's
object.

#### func (*File) String

```go
func (f *File) String() string
```
String implement [fmt.Stringer](https://godoc.org/fmt#Stringer), returning the file's URI as the default string.

#### func (*File) URI

```go
func (f *File) URI() string
```
URI returns the File's URI as a string.

#### func (*File) Write

```go
func (f *File) Write(data []byte) (res int, err error)
```
Write implements the standard for [io.Writer](https://godoc.org/io#Writer). A buffer is added to with each
subsequent write. When [f.Close()](#func-file-close) is called, the contents of the buffer are used
to initiate the PutObject to s3. The underlying implementation uses manager
which will determine whether it is appropriate to call PutObject, or initiate a
multi-part upload.

### type FileSystem

```go
type FileSystem struct {
}
```

FileSystem implements vfs.FileSystem for the S3 file system.

#### func  NewFileSystem

```go
func NewFileSystem() *FileSystem
```
NewFileSystem initializer for FileSystem struct accepts s3.Client, a local subset of aws-sdk s3.Client
and returns FileSystem or error.

#### func (*FileSystem) Client

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) Client() (Client, error)
```
Client returns the underlying aws s3 client, creating it, if necessary
See [Authentication](#authentication) for authentication resolution

#### func (*FileSystem) Name

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) Name() string
```
Name returns "AWS S3"

#### func (*FileSystem) NewFile

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) NewFile(volume string, name string, opts ...options.NewFileOption) (vfs.File, error)
```
NewFile function returns the s3 implementation of [vfs.File](../README.md#type-file).

#### func (*FileSystem) NewLocation

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) NewLocation(volume string, name string) (vfs.Location, error)
```
NewLocation function returns the s3 implementation of [vfs.Location](../README.md#type-location).

#### func (*FileSystem) Scheme

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) Scheme() string
```
Scheme return "s3" as the initial part of a file URI ie: s3://

#### func (*FileSystem) WithClient

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) WithClient(client interface{}) *FileSystem
```
WithClient passes in an s3 client and returns the filesystem (chainable)

#### func (*FileSystem) WithOptions

```go
func (fs *FileSystem) WithOptions(opts vfs.Options) *FileSystem
```
WithOptions sets options for client and returns the filesystem (chainable)

### type Location

```go
type Location struct {
}
```

Location implements the [vfs.Location](../README.md#type-location) interface specific to S3 fs.

#### func (*Location) ChangeDir

```go
func (l *Location) ChangeDir(relativePath string) error
```
ChangeDir takes a relative path, and modifies the underlying [Location](#type-location)'s path.
The caller is modified by this so the only return is any error. For this
implementation there are no errors.

#### func (*Location) DeleteFile

```go
func (l *Location) DeleteFile(fileName string, opts ...options.DeleteOption) error
```
DeleteFile removes the file at fileName path using given options.

#### func (*Location) Exists

```go
func (l *Location) Exists() (bool, error)
```
Exists returns true if the bucket exists, and the user in the underlying
[s3.FileSystem.Client()](#func-filesystem-client) has the appropriate permissions. Will receive false without
an error if the bucket simply doesn't exist. Otherwise could receive false and
any errors passed back from the API.

#### func (*Location) FileSystem

```go
func (l *Location) FileSystem() vfs.FileSystem
```
FileSystem returns a [vfs.FileSystem](../README.md#type-filesystem) interface of the location's underlying
file system.

#### func (*Location) List

```go
func (l *Location) List() ([]string, error)
```
List calls the s3 API to list all objects in the location's bucket, with a
prefix automatically set to the location's path. This will make a call to the s3
API for every 1000 keys to return. If you have many thousands of keys at the
given location, this could become quite expensive.

#### func (*Location) ListByPrefix

```go
func (l *Location) ListByPrefix(prefix string) ([]string, error)
```
ListByPrefix calls the s3 API with the location's prefix modified relatively by
the prefix arg passed to the function. The resource considerations of [List()](#func-location-list)
apply to this function as well.

#### func (*Location) ListByRegex

```go
func (l *Location) ListByRegex(regex *regexp.Regexp) ([]string, error)
```
ListByRegex retrieves the keys of all the files at the location's current path,
then filters out all those that don't match the given regex. The resource
considerations of [List()](#func-location-list) apply here as well.

#### func (*Location) NewFile

```go
func (l *Location) NewFile(filePath string, opts ...options.NewFileOption) (vfs.File, error)
```
NewFile uses the properties of the calling location to generate a vfs.File
(backed by an [s3.File](#type-file)). The filePath argument is expected to be a relative path
to the location's current path.

#### func (*Location) NewLocation

```go
func (l *Location) NewLocation(relativePath string) (vfs.Location, error)
```
NewLocation makes a copy of the underlying Location, then modifies its path by
calling [ChangeDir](#func-location-changedir) with the relativePath argument, returning the resulting
location. The only possible errors come from the call to [ChangeDir](#func-location-changedir), which, for
the s3 implementation doesn't ever result in an error.

#### func (*Location) Path

```go
func (l *Location) Path() string
```
Path returns the prefix the location references in most s3 calls.

#### func (*Location) String

```go
func (l *Location) String() string
```
String implement [fmt.Stringer](https://godoc.org/fmt#Stringer), returning the location's URI as the default
string.

#### func (*Location) URI

```go
func (l *Location) URI() string
```
URI returns the Location's URI as a string.

#### func (*Location) Volume

```go
func (l *Location) Volume() string
```
Volume returns the bucket the location is contained in.

### type Options

```go
type Options struct {
	AccessKeyID     string `json:"accessKeyId,omitempty"`
	SecretAccessKey string `json:"secretAccessKey,omitempty"`
	SessionToken    string `json:"sessionToken,omitempty"`
	Region          string `json:"region,omitempty"`
	Endpoint        string `json:"endpoint,omitempty"`
}
```

Options holds s3-specific options. Currently only client options are used.
